We're going to kick out the section by learning about list views and list views are a super important
skill to have for making Android apps.
In fact I'd argue on your phone you probably don't have an app that doesn't use lists views may be outside
of games like they're use in almost every single app so I have more to talk about that but let's go
ahead and start new projects so that we can learn how to work with list views.
So just go ahead and create a new project I'm going to call mine list view demo Cain and we'll go ahead
and start this project.
We just want our empty activity and that all looks good.
We'll go ahead and hit finish there.
So like I said What is a list view a list view is something that just lists out a bunch of items that
I know that sounds kind of dumb but think about it in your messaging app.
You list out all the context that you've recently had messages with.
And on the Facebook app it lists out a bunch of posts in the Twitter out it lists out a bunch of tweets
if you go to the Settings app inside of Android is going to show all the different things that you can
get to so anywhere you see some sort of list that you can scroll through.
I mean think of a music app when you're scrolling through all the songs for a particular artist or you
know a bunch of albums for a particular artist like that is a list for you everywhere.
So now that we've got our project open let's go ahead and first move to our design here.
So let's move over to our activity main SML.
Essentially what we want to do is we visually want to add our list view first and then we'll come through
and programmatically add some things to that list view.
So we have by default that text you that always comes when we start a new project so let's go ahead
and delete that and then we're going to bring down our list view here bring it into the project.
You can see there it is.
Now with this we've got to go ahead and set some constraints so I'm just going to go ahead and hit Plus's
here and it's going edge to edge which is exactly what we want there so we have a list view that's filling
up the whole screen here.
But you'll notice there's nothing inside of it.
Right.
Like if we go ahead and run this app on the emulator it's going to essentially be a blank app and that's
because we have to tell the list view about what should go inside of there.
So this is where we're going to have to move to our programming to say hey you know we should fill this
up with something and you can see here in the emulator nothing going on.
So in order to do that let's go ahead and give an ID to our list view so we can be sure to get in our
code.
I'm just going to call it my list view just like that.
Now we can come over here to our main activity and here on the uncreate function we are going to get
access to that list view or first kind of reference we're going to say we want a list view that we're
going to call my list view.
And we're going to use our find view by ID in order to get this.
And we're just going to go ahead and do our classic our DOT I.D. dot and then this is where we'll start
typing my list for you and you should have an hour to complete here if everything worked out correctly.
Oh almost forgot our semi-colon there so once you have that in place then we want to start filling up
this list view with some items so for as an example let's go ahead and have a list view that shows all
the family members in your particular family so go ahead.
Hit pause on the video.
Now I want you to create an array that contains the name of your family member.
A little mid lecture challenge for you here make an array that contains your family member's name.
Hit pause.
Do that now.
All right.
So I just wanted you to make an array.
What I ended up doing was I said array list and I want this to be of type string because that's going
to hold a bunch of strings over family members names and I'm going to call this my family and I'm going
to have this be equal to a new array list of type string.
And can't forget that semi-colon can.
So once I had my family here just went ahead and added some family members so I said you know dot add
and I added for example myself.
Nick then we'll go ahead in here let's add some other family member members will do.
Sarah and my family let's go ahead and also add someone else let's add John.
And then lastly let's go ahead and add the family dog.
So we're going to say let's add our family dog Fido and look at that.
We now have an array complete ready to use.
Now what's awesome about arrays enlist is they just work perfectly together right.
So here literally in the name array list right we're lists arrays list out things in a particular particular
order list views are really great at showing array list so it's going to be really awesome to sort of
marry these two things now.
So how do we get the information from this array inside of this list.
Let's do that now.
So the bridge that's going to connect this array my family to this list view called my list view is
something called an array adapter and think of an array adapter as basically taking the information
from an array and filling it inside of a list view.
So you're going to see a little bit more as it works as I type this.
But just remember the array is sort of the bridge between the data and actually getting things to show
up inside of a list view.
So what we're going to do is we're first going to create a new array adapter so just type out.
Capital array adapter and it's going to ask you you know what type this is going to be and we're working
with strings so we're going to do a string array adapter.
And let's go ahead and give it a name I know this is not very original but I'm just going to call it
a re adapter.
And then what we're going to do is we're going to set this equal to a new capital array adapter of type
string.
Good.
And you can see in order to initialize one of these There's a couple of different options that we could
put in here and I'm trying to get that list to show up again but the first thing that we need to pass
inside of there.
In fact I'm just going to delete this because I really want you to be able to see what's in there new
array adapter of strings.
There we go.
So the first thing that we got to pass through is the context right and we've done that before.
That's just going to be this.
So I'll just go ahead and type this.
Then the next thing that it's looking for is it's looking out for a layout saying you know how should
I display this information.
And the reason for this is because list views can show things a lot of different ways.
You'll notice sometimes in a list view that you know there's images involved maybe it's just text you
know maybe it's a combination of the two there's lots of different options so for this let's go ahead
and you know put our comma there to specify the layout that we want.
We're going to type lower case Android Cayne Das Kapital our DOT layout dot and there's all sorts of
different options here.
So this is can be a place where you can go experiment if you want to go see what more of these things
are like but we're going to use a simple list item one which basically allows you to display a string
with a label.
This is kind of the simplest version of having a list item shown inside of a list view.
So we're going to go ahead and choose that so that's the second parameter that we're passing in here.
And then for the last one it has to have some information.
So for example you know it could be some sort of list or array whatever it is.
And in our case that's you know my family so we're just going to go ahead and type my family there and
we're going to pass it through.
So what have we done with this array adapter.
We said hey you know we want you to take my family the array and you know turn it into the simple list
item type of view inside of a list view.
Now because we've created this array adapter this array adapter still doesn't know about the list view
it only knows about the array and how it's supposed to display it.
So in our next step we have to set this array adapter to the list view that we have.
So we're going to take my list view and then we're going to say Dot set adapter and this is where we
pass in our array adapter just like that.
And by doing that now this list view knows OK I'm going to use this array adapter in order to convert
everything and it should be all sunshine and rainbows from here on out.
So let's go ahead and hit run.
Check what this looks like on our emulator here should be quite exciting.
OK there it comes.
And once this opens up look at that we have got this nice list view showing up here's all the names
there you can you know tap on these you see that cool little animation.
We can't really scroll through any of it because there's not enough items to scroll if we did have enough
in here you would see that in fact if you know you just go ahead and I want to properly copy this but
let's copy this code and I'm going to paste it down a ton of times so you can see what happens here
but let's go ahead and run this one more time on the emulator.
This is the fun part of programming right.
You can do sort of ridiculous things like this in a couple of seconds and see what happens.
And look at that now you can do a click drag and sort of see all these different items with the list
view.
So hopefully you've seen some of the magic of a list view in that you can take an array add as many
things as you want to it.
And because this array adapter just has to know about the re It's not like you have to manually say
OK go you know show this thing this way.
No it just sort of handles it as big or as small as your array is.
Your list view is going to show up properly as long as you have an array adapter.
So very cool how all of that works out.
All right.
But you do notice so if for example you tap on one of these names we get this little animation to run
so you see some code that's being run whenever that happens.
But you know what if we want to run our own code to say you know when someone taps on a name maybe we
want to log that name or something like that.
Well let me show you how I can do that and I'm going to come back from our sort of ridiculous example
here.
We only need our four family members.
So after we've done setting the adapter and all that good stuff we want to set in on click listener
for our list view.
So we're going to type out my list view dot and this will work.
We're going to set on item click listener.
There we go.
So now we have to go ahead and create the actual listener.
So we're going to say new adapter view.
OK.
That on item click listener and Android studio handles the rest for us so you might be interested to
say OK on item click and you know we're getting all these different parameters here like what are these
things.
So the first one is the adapter view and this is basically the list view that we had coming through
although the reason it's called an adapter view and it's got this question mark here is because there's
different types of collections that you can have there is like a grid view and stuff like that.
So they kind of leave that ambiguous by purpose.
But we could if we wanted to take something like this and say you know adapter view dot set visibility
and we go here I can't type correctly.
There we go.
Set visibility and we could do something like you know view dogone something like that and that would
literally what would happen here is someone clicks on an item.
It would have the whole thing disappear.
So that's one thing that you could do.
But I'm just kind of showing you that's how that works there.
The view is the actual individual item that has been clicked on so for example if I clicked on John
it would be just this John thing here whereas adapter view is the entire list view there.
The int is what item it is in the list so for example this is counted the same way as an array.
So this is like 0 1 2 3 for just all the way through.
And then the long this can be connected with sort of the idea of what's going on.
And usually this is the same as the end but I really wouldn't work with that too much.
So anyways what I want to do want you to do as a challenge is I want you to be able to log out someone's
name when they are clicked on.
OK.
So someone you know clicks on one of these names like John Nick Feydeau whatever it is.
I want that name to be logged out whenever that happens.
So.
Go ahead.
Hit pause now.
All right.
So hopefully that little challenge went all right for you.
Basically what I wanted to do was I want you to log whenever someone had tapped on something so you
might say something like.
Person selected.
Right.
And then you have to provide then what the person's name that was selected so you might be wondering
you know how do you do this.
Well first we get reference to the array which is my family right.
So inside of here we're going to say my family and then we're going to do dot get right to pull something
out of this array.
And then we're going to pass in this.
And so by passing in I this basically says OK if they tap the thing at the zero position we want to
go get the zero thing from the array if they did it the one the to whatever that's going to work through.
So let's go ahead and run this and see if this is working for us again.
We should have.
We should be able to log out the person's name whenever they select somebody so there's our four names.
Let's say go ahead and click on Sarah boom.
Look at that person selected Sarah.
I tap on John.
John shows up Fido Sarah again.
Nick oh isn't this cool so I mean in the short amount of time we have figured out how to list a bunch
of items from an array and also run some code when someone has clicked on one of them and get access
to the array item that is being displayed in that item so just some really awesome stuff that we've
learned so far here.
All right.
So to really cement in and make sure that you're saying this concept which is so important because like
I said now that you know what A-list viewers like don't you see this inside of almost every single app
on your phone like at some point and apps got list out a bunch of information and ultimately they use
List View so much.
So I really want to make sure that you've got this so I've got a challenge for you.
I want you to delete everything that we have so far.
So in fact just go ahead.
Select all of this.
Go ahead and delete it.
And I even want you to go here do you need to display delete that as well.
The list view that you have because I want you from scratch create a list view listing the name of your
friends instead of your family this time instead of making it so that when someone taps on one of these
that you're logging out the information.
I want to display a little text message remember when we covered that.
So that's sort of the difference here a little bit of a spin on that but I really want you to do this
on your own remember the real learning takes place when you're struggling through in doing three things
on your own so don't just go ahead and move forward and watch me do it.
I want you to hit pause.
Figure this out on your own.
I believe in you.
You can do it.
So list out your friends.
Make it so when you tap on one it shows a little toast of their name.
All right go ahead.
Hit pause.
Now.
All right so if you're watching this I assume you've done the challenge please not move forward till
you've completed the challenge here maybe got to google some stuff re watch things whatever it is I
want you to get through a little bit of that struggle here.
But let me show you how I would accomplish this.
So first thing we got to do is we visually got to bring in a list view Saunder containers here.
We're going to go to our list view and drag and drop this guy out.
And I'm going to show you a little bit different this time.
So by default here by dragging it here there's going to be a little bit of margin here so when I hit
these plus automatically you know there's a little bit eight point separation on each side so you can
decide how you want to handle that.
Laughs I remember we did zero so filled up the entire screen.
I'm just going to show you some alternate options that you can use.
So with this list view we got to give it some sort of ID.
So if we want to since we're working with friends we could call this the friend list view for our ID
that's definitely a possibility.
So we'll go ahead and go back to our main activity here.
So we want to get access to that list view soul say capitalist list view.
And we're going to call this the friends list view.
And we're going to go ahead and do our Classic find view by ID.
And we'll do capital R dot ID dot friend list view just like that.
Now we have access to the list view.
Next thing that we need to do is make an array of our friends.
Now you could have handled this a lot of different ways.
I'm going to show you a little bit of a special way that you can use array list to kind of do it all
in one big line rather than having you know the add add add add and it just takes up a bunch of space
here in Android studio but what we're going to do is we're going to say fine all array lists OK and
we want this to be an array list of strings.
We'll go ahead and pop that in there.
We're just going to call this my friends right real original from my family right.
But then what we're going to do here is we're going to say yes we want to create a new array list and
this should be a bunch of strings.
And then inside of here we're going to do is specify that this should come through as a list.
And then what we're going to do is put some parentheses inside of here and we're just going to start
listing out some people so for example I might say Mark and then you know I might say Jane another friend
that we've got here so do Susie and then our very last one Jan came.
So I got all my friends here let me go ahead and do that ending.
Semi-colon there.
All right.
So after we've created all of our friends right the next step for us is that we have to create the array
adapter and that's the thing that kind of converts it.
Before we move forward.
So you may have noticed I have a bit of an air here and that's because this as listed automatically
import.
So we want to do our import static method Java you tell array's that as list so that we can have that
functionality.
OK so that's going to go ahead and get rid of our Air Force.
So now that we have the array we have the list view.
Remember what is it that connects these two things.
It's the array adapter so let's go ahead and make a new array adapter.
And this is going to be working with strings.
Just go ahead put a string in there and we'll call this our classic name array adapter and we'll say
this is equal to a new capital array adapter of strings.
And then we have to pass in this for our context.
And then again we want to get the lay out that we want a lower case Android capital are not lay out.
And this is where you get all your cool options and look since we recently you simple list item one
it's nice up at the top for us.
And then after that we have to pass the array.
So in this case it's going to be my friends all right we'll put our ending semi-colon in there.
So now we have the array adapter that knows you know how it's supposed to display it and it knows the
array.
But we've got to connect that to the list view.
So we're going to take our friends list view.
We're going to say let's set the adapter equal to our array adapter that we just created so I'll just
type in array adapter there and boom.
If we go ahead and run this we should see all of our friends showing up inside of the app.
Let's go ahead and check this out
mon emulator we believe in you.
Hope you like my little Jingles while we're waiting for the emulator here and boom.
Look at that.
We've got our nice names listed out.
OK.
So once that's in place Remember we want to make it so that if someone taps on one of these names or
clicks that we can actually show a little text message about that.
So let's get back to our friends list view.
OK.
And we want to do a set on item click listener.
So we're going to see a new adapter view on item click listener right.
This is where we get all that cool information.
And now we want to go ahead and use the TOSed functionality that we covered earlier in order to do that
so if you don't remember to make a toast we do capital toast and we're going to say Dot make text and
inside of here we're going to pass in a couple of things so the first one is we've got to get the application
context.
We're going to say get application context comma.
The next thing that we're looking for is the actual message so we're going to put together two strings
to make it friendly.
We're going to say hello to our friends so we're going to say hello space and then we're going to add
on to it.
And this is where we've got to go grab the friend from the friendless So we're going to say my friends
don't get.
And then remember we want to pass this into I which says you know where it is that we're at in the list
view.
And then the last thing we have to pass for a toast is how long that toast message should appear.
So we're going to say toast length and you can choose whether it's going to be short or long.
But let's go ahead and go with long for this one.
And we've got to make sure after all of this that we do a dot show with our semi-colon there.
OK.
So this should be enough to complete everything that we've got.
Let's go ahead and hit run here and see what this puppy looks like.
So shout out to you for doing all of this.
Let's see.
Moment of Truth here I tap on Susie.
Hello Susie.
I'd tap on Jan. We had to wait for Susie to go away.
Hello Jan..
Maybe we should have done a short toast message.
I'm not sure but we tap on Mark.
Hello Mark.
OK.
So congratulations on getting the first sort of basics of a list view down.
I promise we're going to be working with list views a ton here after.
So don't worry if you're thinking like I kind of get the idea of it but I'm not 100 percent.
Don't worry you're going to get lots and lots of practice in the source of course so congratulations
on getting this all worked out but we've got more to learn let's keep movin.